doc/usage/getting-started.rst, before:

Getting Started
===============

How you start depends on your editor.

Currently Phpactor has most support when used over it's own RPC protocol, but
an :ref:`increasing amount <lsp_support>` of support is offered from the
:ref:`language_server`.

In addition you can also do somethings from the CLI only.

Select one of the following to get started:

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: VIM or Neovim

        Use the :doc:`vim-plugin`, optionally supplement with :ref:`CoC <lsp_client_vim_coc>`:

    .. tab:: Sublime Text

        Use :ref:`client_rpc_sublime` optionally supplement with
        :ref:`Sublime LSP <lsp_client_sublime>`:

    .. tab:: Emacs

        Use the :ref:`Emacs RPC client <client_rpc_emacs>`

    .. tab:: Other Editor 

        You should be able to use the :ref:`language_server`. The procedure should be similar to the ones outlined for :ref:`other clients <language_server_clients>`. When you get one working, make a pull request to add it here ☺

    .. tab:: CLI

        Phpactor exposes a number of commands over the CLI (e.g. moving
        classes, applying transformations).

        See :ref:`installation_global`

Commit message:

Improved the docs (#2247)
* Improved the docs

* More fixes

* Implementing suggestions

* Fixing the spacing in the docs generator

Before the doc generator would just replace new lines with nothing removing the spacing between them.

doc/usage/getting-started.rst, after:

Getting Started
===============

How you start depends on your editor.

Currently Phpactor has most support when used over it's own :ref:`legacy RPC protocol <rpc_protocol>`.
Phpactor is now primarily a language server, but some additional functionality can still be accessed through the native VIM plugin.

In addition you can also do somethings from the CLI only for that a
:ref:`global installation <installation_global>` is recommended.

Select one of the following to get started:

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: VIM or Neovim

        Use the :doc:`vim-plugin` or :ref:`set it up as an LSP<lsp_client_vim>`.

    .. tab:: Sublime Text

        Use :ref:`client_rpc_sublime` optionally supplement with
        :ref:`Sublime LSP <lsp_client_sublime>`:

    .. tab:: Emacs

        Use the :ref:`Emacs RPC client <client_rpc_emacs>`

    .. tab:: Other Editor

        You should be able to use the :ref:`language_server`. The procedure should be similar to the ones outlined for :ref:`other clients <language_server_clients>`. When you get one working, make a pull request to add it here ☺
